serrae rrr. ⁴ 329

rush work‚'' as suggested by Mr. Evans; perhaps also table·
mats for dishes, doc. mille (iii 8) is an indefinite number like
ceratum, i 120, iii 2²9· 47: emptor Olynthi, Philip, ol Mace-
don, who 0btained possession ol Olynthus hythe treachery of
two ol its inhabitants, nc. 347 ; and of many other cities iu

the same way. Diffidet arbium Portae eir Macedo et cubuit ·

aemulos Reges muneribus, Hor. Od. iii 16 13; Son. Epp. 94.
Pliny says he slept with a gold cup under his pillow, ll.N.
. xxxiii 3. We have here a valuahle cup, described as one out
ol which Philip had drunk, as at vi 156, we had a valuable
diamond that had been worn by Berenice, end (according to “
rnost commentatore) atii 99, the lacking-glass that Otho had
used, and at v 44, the jenels which had belonged to Aeneas.
qno. Ribbeck objeots to the absence of a preposition3 but
we have yemma didere iu Virgil, Georgii 506, and fictilibus
bibere in our author, x 25 26. So fictilibus coenare, iii 168.
48, 49: There is a strong dash of satire iu these lines, as
applied to Catullus, who iras llinging overheard his choicest
valuables to save his life, and especially in audet. And
observo also, atilium, below, “his necessaries.” Ribbeck bas Ι
altogether misunderstood this. 50, 51: Bentley pronounoes
theseversesspurious,objecting,ieterolia‚totheexpressionsccere
f patrimonio and citio caeci. But Cicero has faeere raonem “to Ἴ

collect a band ol men together,'’ several times, and once secere ’ ’

easaoerea, “tc get together.” Cic. Verr. ii 4 '2 5. The great
objection to the verses seems to me to be that they jar with
the context.

52, 53: sed nee Duneac lerant. It is not likely that the
throwiug over ol dresses, and caps, and bank, doc, would
produce much effect3 but Catullus was terribly frightened.
There is still a rein of mock seriousness about this. hlr.
Escott renders “ relieve their sufferings,” which is quite
wrong. 54: ae se. Heinrich (whom Macleane follows)
has leae re, on the strength cl ono MS, and renders “relieves
himself from the strait.” lle says that explicere bellem,
segem, periculam, etc, are common in this sense, ee qr,
explico aestum oseem, “relieve me from my difficulty,” Plin.
Epp. ix 34. h'o doubt, but the question is whether orrr text
will stand, supported as it is by almost the whole weight of

 

