INTRODUCTION. 13

pied himself ior many years 'of his lile in declaiming3

and assuredly every page in his writings bears evidence
tc the aecuracy of the assertion. Each piece is a finished
rhetorical essay, energetie‚ glowing, and sonorous3 the
t successive attacks upon vice are all planned with syste-
qmatic skill; the arguments are marslralled in imposing
array; they advance, supported by a heavy ertillery of
powerful and well-aimed illustratione, and, sweeping
impetuously onward, carry by assault each position as in
turn assailed. But although the impression produced at
first is overvvhelming, the results are not pemranent.

The different poems are too obviously formal works of ’

art; and while the figures in each picture arc selected
with anxious care, grouped with all attention to effect,
¹ and rich with the most brilliant colouring‚ the composi-
tion, as a whole, is deficient in the graceful ease and
reality which impart such a matehless charin to the less
regular and less elaborate sketches of Horace. The means
by which the two satirists scel< to achieve their object
are as widely different as the tempera and habits of the
men. It is impossible to imagine a contrast more striking
than is presented by the playful, good-humoured gaiety
vvith which the one would laugh his hearers 'out of their
sollies and their guilt, and hythe uncompromising stern-
ness with ulrich the other seelrs to seara them, calling to ἱ,
his aid frightful images and terrifio denunciatione. In '²
the one case, however, we are sully convinced of the
absolute sincerity of our monitor3 we feel that his prc-
cepts are the sruit of long experience, proceeding ¹from
one who, having mingled much with the world and
encountered its perils, is filled with kindly sympathy for
the difficulties and dangers of those whom he warns to

' avoid the rocks and shoals on which he had himself well·

nigh been wreehcd3 while the stately‚ well-measured
indignation of tho other belongs to the eloquence of the
head rather than of the licoat, and the obvious tonc of

 

